---
layout: post
title: Iris Lab Blog Post - David O 
---

#Iris Lab Blog Post 
##David Orloff
###Due 10/12/20

The process: 

    The first task I focused on was importing the CSV and   
creating two dictionaries (one for petal width and one for petal length).   
I created lists that would be placed into the dictionaries to represent  
the different types of sepals.

    After that, I ran the Iris CSV file and read it as a dictionary.    
I then created a for loop that would add the specific sepal widths    
and sepal lengths into each list so that I can average them all out    
later on. I initially struggled with writing a proper loop because I    
wasn't specifying the correct rows that needed to be added into the lists    
which led to my code not running properly. However, I was able to figure   
this out by calling on the specific rows by writing if(row['species]).  

    After creating a proper for loop and checking it I created a method      
that would calculate the average of each list so that I knew the average  
lengths and widths for all the sepal types. I asked Alex to help me find  
the proper way to execute this method since it originally wasn't running properly.
 
    I then calculated the averages for the width and length of  
each species 

Example: 
avgvirginicawidth = Average(irisvirginicawidth)

    To finalize the lab, I assigned the different list averages  
to their corresponding dictionaries and then printed both dictionaries  
with their results. 

This lab taught me how to read files, implement dictionaries and lists  
in useful ways, and calculate averages of large datasets by organizing  
and narrowing down the dataset.  


